---
layout: page
completed: 2012-04-24
---

## Comments

Three things made this problem run in 0.25 seconds.

Avoidance of floating point numbers. Because the numbers I was working with
were so precise -- out to many decimal places -- this made the use of floating
point numbers problematic. When a number should have been 0.5, the program did
not recognize it. In order to avoid this all together, I used a little algebra
and made sure each side of the equation did not use division.

Multiplication by square root of two over two. As this problem reaches
infinity, the subtraction of 1 from the numerator and denominator will all but
disappear. Thus, the limit reaches (number of blue)^2 / (total)^2. But since
this will equal 1/2, therefore, (number of blue)/(total) will equal the square
root of two over two. For each total number of discs that I ran through, I
multiplied this by the square root of two over two. This because an irrational
number and was going to be too low to be the number of blue discs. The ceiling
function then gave the number of blue discs. This allowed the program to run at
O(N).

Use of a multiplier to jump to the next number. I noticed that the ratio
between each succeeding correct value of the total discs increases. I therefore
used the ration between the last two total discs to jump to a number that would
be closer to the next correct answer.

## Code

```python
root2 = float(2.0**0.5)/float(2.0)
br = 2
prev = 1

while True:
	b = int(br*root2) + 1
	if 2*b*(b-1) == br*(br-1):
		print b, br
		if br > 10**12:
			break
		mult = br/float(prev)
		prev = br
		br = int(br*mult)
	else:
		br += 1
```
