---
layout: poem
---

## Comments

This problem was a delightful change in pace.  There were no test cases given,
and really it wasn't as much about finding an efficient algorithm as it was for
actually trying to figure out what the answer is mathemtically.

I started by attempting a brute force method that just ran the example as given
in the problem over and over again and printed the average as it went.  This
was nice because it gave me a good ballpark estimate of what the answer would
be.  However, since the problem asked for 10 digits after the decimal and my
brute force (Monte Carlo?) method was converging only at 4-5 digits, I knew I'd
need a different approach.

This is when I started to think about it mathematically.  I began by trying to
solve the problem for if it was just a single digit number.  This is the same
as asking how many times on average do you need to flip a coin before you will
get a Heads.  I read several explanations on the internet; the answer is 2
flips.  By hand I followed their example and figured out what it would be if I
flipped two coins, how many flips until each of them have gotten a Heads.  I
started to see a continued fraction evolving.  I was able to put together a
function that solved the problem for 1 and 2 bits respectively, then used
oeis.org to find the patterns.  From here it was an simple walk to the correct
answer.  Using Pypy3, it runs in about 0.10 seconds.

## Code

```python
def solve(n):
    num = it = prev = 0
    while True:
        it += 1
        denom = 2**(n*it)
        a = (2**it - 1)**n - (2**it - 2)**n
        num += (a / denom) * it
        if num - prev < 0.00000000001:
            break
        prev = num
    return round(num, 10)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    import sys
    n = eval(sys.argv[1])
    print(solve(n))
```

## Tests

```python
import pytest
from problem import solve

_test_solve = (
        (1, 2.0),
        (2, 2.6666666667),
        (3, 3.1428571428),
        (4, 3.5047619048),
)

@pytest.mark.parametrize('n,expect', _test_solve)
def test_solve(n, expect):
    assert expect == solve(n)
```
